The purpose of our study is to develop statistical methodology for the analysis of large-scale Genome-Wide Association Studies, and in particular, to develop methods which can effectively deal with various types of population structure (e.g. race, family relatedness).

Technical Research Use Statement: Our goal is to study the role and importance of ENCODE datasets, and specifically chromatin state maps, for interpreting disease studies. By being able to link loci together based on their inferred co-regulated status, we hope to be able to increase the power to detect disease-associated pathways and disease-associated co-regulated loci, by linking these regions together, and studying their joint association with disease phenotypes. To achieve these goals, we need access to individual-level GWAS datasets, containing all SNPs for each individual and the associated disease phenotypes. We will not use any of these datasets to seek to reveal the identity of individuals, and data will only be used for large-scale associations across thousands of individuals.



Public Research Use Statement: We will apply novel analytical methods to understand the genetics of psychiatric diseases. We will model gene and gene-gene interactions guided by functional pathways. We will also assess the contribution of the environment and any gene-environment interactions in datasets where environment is assessed. We also plan to use the datasets with general research use (GRU) as a basis for theoretical work to optimize genetic association studies. For example, we will develop methods to estimate allele frequencies as a function of ancestry, and evaluate the accuracy of these methods using real data. Combining datasets from more than one study, consistently with their data use restrictions, will not create any additional risks to the participants.

Technical Research Use Statement: We seek to understand the genetic etiology of psychiatric diseases, other brain diseases, related phenotypes, and population genetic questions of direct relevance to these diseases. We (and others) have developed new analytical methods and modeling techniques that we want to apply to large genome-wide association studies. This methodological work will help advance our understanding of the genetic basis of these phenotypes. In addition, we propose to access datasets that allow use for general genetic purposes, including general medical research or general research use (GRU) to develop novel methods for estimating allele frequencies as a function of ancestry and haplotype frequencies. This methodological work will provide ancestry-specific estimates of allele and haplotype frequencies for general medical research. We acknowledge the use restrictions of each dataset and we will abide by them.







Public Research Use Statement: The purpose of our study is to develop methods that leverage copy number variations (CNVs) for gene mapping, to develop a principled statistical framework, in particular, to integrate single-nucleotide variant (SNV) and CNV data at the gene-level.  For example,

Technical Research Use Statement: neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism, Psychiatric disorders
Evidence implicated that CNVs and single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) converge on the same set of genes. Current analysis methods cannot effectively combine CNV data with other variants. 
The result will be higher sensitivity for detecting risk genes than using either SNVs or CNVs alone.
The various length of CNVs rises to the analytic challenge that CNVs often spread multiple genes, thus it is often unclear which one is susceptible. As a result, there is no single commonly accepted method for disease mapping of CNVs.
It is often difficult to firmly link a de novo CNV with a specific disorder only based on its length and rarity in the population.


We will first use simulations to assess our method, starting by sampling risk genes from the genome. Then we will sample the locations of CNVs to match the sizes and frequencies of CNVs in real data. 
Next we will sample the effect sizes of CNVs based on whether they contain risk genes and generate CNV data.
We will evaluate if the Bayes Factors of non-risk genes are inflated, and compare the power of our method with related methods.
We will apply the method to ...... CNV dataset.
